For this exercise, you are asked to segment the usage of
a new feature of play a random song launched by a music app.
Question 1, assess to determine the number of first-time users that use each feature.
Looking at the data file,
we can see three event types.
Banding page, play random song,
and play requested song.
We know that the new feature of the music app was
the ability for new users to play a random song.
So all play random song event types
likely represent a user making use of this new feature.
In contrast, the play requested song,
represents the new user using the original feature set.
To see the number of users using each feature,
one has to count the number of records associated with each event type.
Since these are first-time users,
there will only be one session ID for every user ID, and vice versa.
By counting the unique number of user IDs associated with it two event types in tablo,
we can see that 1,709 users played
a random song and only 1,045 users played a specific song during their first visit.
The second question of the exercise was to use available user demographics or
behavior segments to see if the use of the feature varied among different types of users.
The data provides three potential elements of behavioral distinction.
Gender, device, and date.
By looking at the count of
requested and random events broken down into these cohorts or segments,
we can calculate the percent of use of each feature for each group.
First, let's look at gender.
As seen in this table,
both genders play a random song and about the same ratio to playing of a requested song.
67-69 percent of females and males played random song,
and 32-30 percent requested.
The new random song feature doesn't seem to be appealing more to either gender.
Now let's talk about devices.
Again, similar ratios are seen among all devices.
It looks like both features are equally effective across all devices.
Finally, let's check the daily use of features to see if any changes or
marketing resulted in a spike of the usage of one feature on a particular day.